To know that there are some things that you cannot know is mental health,
but to not know things that you should know, his illness,
the wise man recognizes the limits of his knowledge.
The foolish man thinks he knows everything.
Chapter 71 ignorance of the Dao de Ching.
This is part two. I made another video on this,
where I discussed that ancient humans were clearly smarter than us.
They were far more awakened and enlightened to the collective whole of the human
race in our entire civilization.
Well then that the leaders that run the entire show do now, I mean,
you take into consideration the leaders of corporations,
the media governments, all over the world.
It's beyond obvious that we're being led by those who have selfish
ambitions. Those who are putting their own desire for money, power,
and fame before the masses, this is abundantly clear. However,
if the whole world was to start teaching their children from, I don't know,
grade school on up the information contained in the ancient wisdom of the Dao de
Ching, this world would improve far quicker than most of us realize. Now,
if you're not familiar with the Dao de Ching,
and I'm going to read a few more of my favorite passages in just a second,
but if you're not familiar with the Dao de Ching,
it translates to the book of the way or the book of the way of virtue,
depending on the dialect that you use to translate it and who wrote it.
And when is a subject of debate, however,
most people believe that it was written by Lao-Tzu in the fourth century
BC. And when you look at this whole book after having read it, and by the way,
it's only 81 chapters and each chapter is less than one page in length,
and most chapters are actually just a few sentences.
So you can read it very quickly in less than a half hour,
although you'd want to take more time to reflect on it, of course. Um,
but when you look at it from just the whole, you have to ask yourself who,
I mean, how did someone come to such incredible enlightenment and knowledge?
I mean, I would venture to say, and I, I can't prove this.
This is just a theory that maybe some of these, uh, Proverbs or poems,
uh, they've been called different things, but these individual chapters,
some of them might date back far earlier than 2,500 years. Just a theory,
not necessarily true, but the question becomes, and when you read this,
you just see and know the truth as you'll see,
as I share a few passages here with you that, I mean, my goodness,
somebody would have had to observed and analyzed numerous civilizations,
the rise and fall of numerous civilizations and numerous leaders, good leaders,
and poor leaders to be able to come up with this information.
It's absolutely incredible. So as I just read number 71, which is ignorance,
which just, I mean,
isn't that just brilliant that there are people out there that just think they
know everything, but smart people wise, people recognize it. Now,
there are some things we just cannot know. It's just the way it is.
So without further ado, let me read a few more passages to you.
Opposites when beauty is only a masquerade than it is simply
in the same way. Goodness.
If it is not sincere is not really goodness existence and non-existence
are incompatible.
The difficult in the easy are mutually opposed the long and the short,
the high and the low,
the loud and the soft the before and the behind are all opposites.
Each reveals the other,
the wise man is not conspicuous in his actions or given to too much talking when
troubles arise. He is not irritated. He produces, but does not hoard.
He acts but expects no praise. He builds, but does not dwell there in.
And because he does not dwell there in, he never departs.
Now the part about this that I want to discuss real quick is the opposites that
everything reveals each other. I mean, this goes,
and I'm going to make a video on the Emerald tablets, the, as above.
So below that in this universe,
part of the law of the universe is that there's just an opposite to everything,
light, dark, and everything in between. I mean,
you could even look at birth and death that there is a rise until your peak
and then a gradual decline. So you could say that the middle of each the,
between birth and peak versus the peak to death, there's an opposite there too.
Do you see what I'm saying?
And it's also worth mentioning the part about good that, you know,
if beauty is only a masquerade than its ugliness in the same way that if
goodness isn't sincere than it, isn't goodness. I mean, isn't that true? I mean,
is there any debate about that? So let me move on to number six, the source,
which is very short, as you can see the spirit of the perennial spring,
which by the way, perennial is infinite.
The never-ending is said to be in mortal. She is called the mysterious one.
The mysterious one is the source of heaven and earth.
She is continually endlessly giving forth life without effort.
I like how it says she it's interesting.
Cause when you look at ancient Egyptians, as an example, women, the females,
they were running the show, they were the leaders. Were they not? Uh,
the hierarchy was a matriarch,
just like in the animal kingdom of elephants. The,
the women lead the way and there's been other civilizations that have been the
same way. I find it interesting that it refers to as she,
as the giving forth of life.
But that universe is always giving birth and everything completes itself,
that everything ties together in the source of all things is what
creates. And we are all part of that source.
Nikola Tesla discussed this into some detail,
which I discussed in a few of those videos, as I'm sure most of you have seen.
So let me move on now to eight, which is goodness,
which we touched on briefly in opposites. True.
Goodness is like water in nurtures, everything in harms,
nothing like water. It ever seeks the lowest place,
the place that all others avoid.
This is the way of the Dow for a dwelling.
It chooses the quiet meadow for a heart. The circling Eddy in generosity,
it is kind in speech. It is sincere.
And the authority it is order in action. It is gentle and movement.
It is rhythm because it is always peaceable it soothers and
refreshes. I love the part, how it discusses early on that like water,
it seeks the lowest place, the place that all others avoid.
This is the way of the Dao. This is, I mean, you could tie this into Christ.
Uh, you know, guys, anyone that needs help,
the people that truly need help are the ones that usually most people,
the masses will seem to avoid those who need it.
Most like people that are addicts, people that are poor.
A lot of people need a helping hand. And my helping hand,
I'm not saying here's a bunch of money, but think about it.
Water seeks the lowest place as does. Goodness. Doesn't that make sense?
So those out there who are truly good, they don't just avoid the lowest areas.
Those are the places that they seek just like water and water gives us
everything. Let me move on to nine prudence.
If you continue filling a pail after it is full, the water will be wasted.
If you continue grinding an ax after it is sharp,
the edge will wear away who can protect a house full of gold and
jewels.
Excessive fortune brings about its own misfortune or money,
more problems to intru merit to earn a good
reputation. You must be prudent. This is the way of the Dow.
Think about it guys. I've had a very interesting life. I've had,
I've been well off. I've lived poor and everywhere in between. Uh,
and I can tell you that, honestly,
it just seems that more material materialism or money more,
the more focus you have on riches it's man,
it doesn't bring a pot. It doesn't bring upon you.
What you truly seek in the world is seeing this as a whole. We are,
as a global civilization are largely living a more materialistic life
than ever before. Arguably,
and yet you can say that there's more suffering in this world than there's ever
been. Of course that's debatable too, right? I mean, look at world war II,
the whole world suffered,
but the point is this materialism does not bring happiness. Well,
it does so, but it's very, very shortsighted. It's very, I mean,
thinking about anyone that buys something new might be excited about it,
but how often before that wears off before they want the next best thing,
but it surely makes a great point. So let me move on to number 11, which I,
which is called materiality, which I shared in my prior video, but it's,
it's so important, especially in 2017.
And it ties right in with what I was just saying about materialism.
So I'll have to read this probably in part three as well.
You can't leave this one out a wheel may have 30 spokes,
but it's usefulness lies within the empty hub. A jar is formed from clay,
but its usefulness lies within the empty center.
A Rome is made from four walls,
but its usefulness lies in the space between in the same way matter is
necessary to give form.
But the value of reality lies in its immateriality.
That is everything that lives has a physical body,
but the value of a life is measured by the soul. Amen.
Right? I mean, oh my goodness. It's so true.
The value of life is measured by the soul.
And you can also say that soul is the source of all things that make up,
well say a room of four walls at all.
Everything here is made up of what comes from the source,
but the measure of it is what's within it. Just like the measure of a person.
Isn't what they look like. It's what's within their character,
their soul number 12, seek spirit,
too much light blinds, the eye too much noise deferens the ear,
too many spices, a taste, too much exercise weakens the body.
The pursuit of great riches leads to ruin the wise man attends to the inner
truth of things. And he is not fooled by outward appearances.
He ignores matter and seeks the spirits.
I can tell you this from my own life experiences, my goodness.
And in many others will tell you this. In fact,
you can just look in simply into celebrity culture or the powers that be,
whether it be politicians and world leaders or even, uh,
leaders of corporations,
they're all trying to achieve something that they just cannot fulfill.
And that it ultimately leads to the ruin. They have many problems, divorces,
terrible relationship with their kids,
total disgrace and going down like the dark end of the addiction and everything
else. We know this is this not true.
And yet the ancients were talking about this at least closer to 2,500 years ago.
It's ops. It makes you think doesn't it.
What was just as true back then thousands of years ago is unbelievably true
today. Humans haven't changed. Have we now to close this up, uh,
for this one video, I'm going to go back and read. I read this from the last,
uh, video, but the very last chapter of the book, 81, true words,
not too long, but this is just freaking brilliant.
True words are often unpleasant pleasant words are often untrue.
Those who know the truth, do not argue those who argue, do not know the truth.
Scholars are seldom the wisest men, wisest men are seldom scholars.
Those who steal from others, impoverish themselves.
Those who give to others become rich.
Those who fight do not win those who win, do not fight.
This is the way of the Dow. Is that not brilliant?
Honestly again, when you stop and you reflect on this entire book in its whole,
it's unbelievable. Like I said,
just how true that wisdom was thousands of years ago, which,
and I also suspect dates back for the 2,500 years as I stated earlier,
but just how applicable it is today. So I highly recommend this book.
I hope you enjoyed this. Me sharings, just some insight on this. Um,
but I highly recommend it. I think you should buy it. And again,
this is something that should be taught to every child starting from the grade
school level on upwards. Anyways, I'll leave it at that. I'm Jimmy,
this is bright insight like and subscribe and leave me a comment.
Let me know what your thoughts are.
And I have many more videos to come and a whole wide variety of topics.
Take care of everybody.